Shawn Phalen: Hey,
Jacob: How's it going,
Jacob: Are you
Jacob: Turning your video or
Jacob: I'm sorry. Took me a while zoom forced me to update on my computer and then it wouldn't let me actually join any meetings. After that, sorry to get it installed on my phone.
Shawn Phalen: Hey, man.
Jacob: I think I've been good. That's kind of a pretty upsetting state of things right now in America.
Jacob: So that's been pretty upsetting just, you know, seeing our country really fall apart and burn even more than that was
Very
Jacob: very upsetting isn't. Mm hmm. I'm really all sides.
Jacob: I mean other than that, personally, I've been pretty good. You know, I just kind of developed a routine for still being in the shelter in place.
Jacob: You know, just getting up making you know it your coffee in the morning, having breakfast.
Jacob: reading the news for a little bit. Practicing guitar for an hour to
Jacob: You know, maybe hanging out in the garden for a while. Get some gardening done read for a few hours, you know, make dinner and
Jacob: Fall asleep and rinse and repeat. So
Shawn Phalen: Hey,
Jacob: Office was that not. Thank you. Yeah, so that was going to happen. But once all these protests broke out in San Francisco has occurred to 5pm now.
Jacob: We can't happen.
Jacob: By him and
Shawn Phalen: She will you should be going back into, like, what do you think the next week.
Jacob: Yeah, hopefully.
Jacob: I mean, honestly, whenever this starts to starts to and probably to get worse before it gets better, but
Jacob: You know, beyond the curfew. Either they don't want anyone working to, you know, we're driving all over the city, you know,
Jacob: If there's, you know, blocks that are shut down. You know what I mean you know people's misdirected anger. It's not really a good situation for anybody. So yeah, we'll, we'll see how that goes. But
Shawn Phalen: So hasn't been hasn't been really bad in the city.
Jacob: Um, I don't live in San Francisco. It hasn't been that bad in the city in Oakland. It's been pretty intense. I got a few friends who live over there and it's, you know,
Jacob: Kind of like, you know, like by city, you know, there's, you know, 40 or 50 cops going each way on the freeway. They shut freeways down
Jacob: You know buildings being burned down
Jacob: Yeah, so it's, you know, cars on flipped on fire. You know, it's pretty it's pretty hectic and heavy right now.
Jacob: Craziness. Isn't it. Mm hmm. Are you doing with the shelter in place. And I think you were looking forward to going back to work. And then all this stuff happened. I mean, how's that affecting affecting your mental
Jacob: Oh, I mean, I definitely think that lack of socialization is pretty much the main issue. I'm just, you know, having read up regular meetings with people and you know there's been a majority of my friends are in peers right now.
Jacob: So it's like, I definitely look forward to a little bit more like something to do something to have to do something to take up the majority of my day.
Jacob: Let's do it the same time I'm kind of just looking at it as an opportunity and kind of a test to use my time as wisely as possible.
Jacob: And at least do as many mentally positive things that I can do in Cairo at the beginning of quarantine, or the shelter in place. I literally did nothing. I watch TV all day. I slept in until for
Jacob: Watch movies on a or just like
Jacob: Literally did nothing all day and all night and I started to feel like my brain was literally slowing down because
Jacob: I wasn't challenged on a daily basis at work. I wasn't having to think on my feet interact people. I literally just wasn't using my brain at all and actually got to a point where I was actually just having trouble getting thinking clearly and having a dialogue running through my head.
Jacob: So I really made a very, very
Jacob: wordy. The word
Jacob: In intensive like
Jacob: Really conscious change on my day by day basis to make sure that I'm using my brain critically, whether that's learning new music on guitar practicing guitar reading books on philosophy, or, you know, not just pleasure books but books that are kind of regarded as
Jacob: Heavy thinking, you know, critical parsing to actually get through it properly.
Jacob: To actually keep my brain active otherwise I just felt myself literally dumbing down so you know that's kind of probably the biggest reward in terms of like my mental health.
Jacob: During this whole time. But regardless, before that, when I was going to work and having to critically solve problems and working on technology and stuff like that. I already felt very, very fluid and
Jacob: Clear headed so
Jacob: Um, I think it's probably taking a toll on a lot of other people more than me. You know, I'm lucky, where I live right now. You know, I like a nice backyard garden space to walk around hikes near my house. Yeah, um,
Jacob: But I definitely think the lack of socialization aspect is definitely pretty much the major thing that's missing there.
Shawn Phalen: So,
Do you have
Like, do you have a certain group of people that you do stuff with when you're able to socialize and you know be out there doing stuff. I mean,
Jacob: What's your social circle like um so my social circle is like, I've got a few friends in Oakland. I've got a friend in the survey, most of the people that I know I see kind of throughout the summer because
Jacob: A big part of what I do is I work at events like music festivals over the summer.
Jacob: So they're probably at least usually six or seven of those general I get to see my friends for five or six days at a time or out of state.
Jacob: But like I've been going on hikes with my friend and Walnut Creek, but it's still just kind of, you know, serious degree of separation, because you can only spend a little while with each other.
Jacob: You know, there's still that kind of a
Jacob: Worry of not wanting to get too close. You know what I mean, or spend too much time in close proximity
Jacob: You know that I live with my mom right now. And she's you know over 60 you know so
Jacob: I be spending a lot more time with people and going out to the restaurants that are kind of reopening right now we're going to our friends.
Jacob: Camp outs are like gatherings in their houses with like 20 to 30 people but it's kind of just a main consideration for my mom right now. Otherwise, if I wasn't living here.
Jacob: It's just I wouldn't really mind nearly as much. Right. Um, and then, you know, there's always the kind of pseudo socialization, you know, just talking to people online.
Jacob: But you know, I try not really trying to keep all social media right now.
Jacob: I've never really felt the kind of toxic presence of it so much as it is right now. What's going on with the world just like seeing people I know.
Jacob: And just their opinions and firm convictions right now is just like I just rather turn the whole thing off right now, rather than try and get in arguments with people about things. I
Jacob: Don't need battling. Yeah. Um, but yeah, a lot of the people that I usually go out with their people at work. You know what I mean. Yeah.
Jacob: And you know, it's kind of like without that common denominator of work. You know, there's still time to spend each other and hang out. But it's very, very different you I mean
Jacob: You know when you've all been spending time together for months and months on end, there's a close knit group.
Jacob: And suddenly, there's a lot of space. I think that I've noticed, at least I see people that has grown in between and you haven't seen people for almost two months or three months.
Jacob: You know, it's kind of hard to close that gap of what's been going on in your life wasn't going on in my life. And then how can we just start talking normally
Jacob: But it's kind of okay you I mean because one of the ways I like to put is that I'm really good at being alone. You know, I've always been very independent and introverted.
Jacob: I'm just not very good at feeling lonely. So I'm totally cool being on my own. As long as I don't feel lonely as long as I still feel connected to either myself or to nature, my surroundings, or my mind.
Jacob: It's only like you like a strong connection is something I don't really feel lonely.
Jacob: So I can actually thoroughly enjoy being alone and actually use it for as much constructed nature and constructive activity as I possibly can.
Shawn Phalen: So that's how you combat your loneliness be out in nature, maybe in your garden reading
Jacob: Reading playing guitar feeling connected to something feeling contingent upon something, you know,
Jacob: Like, I know a lot of people who are super extroverted, they almost depend on being with other people to reaffirm their own existence of that makes sense. Like they need someone to
Jacob: Be around to literally almost be with see themselves even or you know what I mean, like, whether they're a mere themselves or however that functions differently. The neat.
Jacob: Whereas for my own mind in my own self of what I've noticed is that as long as I have something to be at least contingent upon that's an object, not a subject, you know, like my guitar or like a book I'm reading or like nature. Joining me
Jacob: That I don't feel down this
Is good stuff. Really good.
Really, really good.
Um,
Shawn Phalen: So when you go back to the office, are you guys doing it, where you're kind of
It, it's gonna be one week on one week off. This is going to be where you
Shawn Phalen: I mean, how's it going to change in that regard. I mean, I'm asking that question, just because I know that
Shawn Phalen: Having like that human contact at work right having your co workers in the scene and
Shawn Phalen: You know, it's like a community feel connected
Jacob: What's that going to look like when you go back to work.
And they said,
Jacob: Um, you know, I think. I mean, from before this was happening when I think a lot of us aren't taking it very seriously.
Jacob: Is kind of like a big joking or maybe we're not a big joke was still serious. I mean, but it was kind of just like you know
Jacob: There is still a light comedic environment around us to cope with it.
Jacob: When I go back and you know I the one, the one where I guess I do have is that, you know, I worried that some people that I've worked with those close with may not be working anymore.
Jacob: And, you know, maybe they left for potentially. You know, I don't know, jobs, they would get there. Maybe they just rage quit or something.
Jacob: But you know, that's kind of a word I have is, you know, whether in there now holes in the community of people who are no longer there. Um, I mean, I think there is a very, very strong sense of trust within it, because you know when you're getting in one of these cars with somebody
Jacob: You're trusting them to get behind the wheel of a car that's driving itself and take over. If anything goes seriously wrong or somebody acts crazy in the street.
Jacob: Same way as when I'm behind the wheel of the car is driving itself, the person in the seat or above the passenger seat back seeds.
Jacob: They're completely trusting me with their lives, you know, there could be a critical error in the car and go up onto the sidewalk going 30 miles per hour. You know, it doesn't really happen, but it could happen, you know,
Jacob: So there's a serious amount of trust between people there. And I think that's really, really good. It's a very, very non toxic work environment.
Jacob: It's very much like let's speak your piece bring up what's on your mind you're going to be around these people and you can't be at odds with them.
Jacob: So I think going back to it since. Pretty much everyone that works here is young and healthy for the most you know they are really young and healthy.
Jacob: I think it's just going to be kind of more of a matter of like the day or two before we got off work.
Jacob: You know, it'll be less fun to work there because now you know there aren't here foods you. I mean, they might not be shared drinks coffee machines night not be there anymore. You know, the creature comforts or then once you start to take those away, you know,
Jacob: Life's falling down all the surfaces of the car when you get into them on when you get out, you know, there's all these extra procedures.
Jacob: You know, and I think there will be of course they'll some uncomfortable. And as you know, just be around people in general. But you know, I think.
Jacob: It's kind of like what it's been like when I spent time with people at first, there's this little bit of adversity adversity adversity to each other, but
Jacob: It dispels pretty quickly.
Jacob: So, you know, I guess, like I said, my main fear is that I just hope that people I know quite well.
Jacob: Didn't up and quit the job just because they got frustrated or something like that. Yeah, okay.
Shawn Phalen: Um,
Okay, that's good.
Shawn Phalen: Um, how are your any cravings are you having any triggers, anything like that going on.
Jacob: Um, I don't really see any triggers you don't. I mean, I'd say that, you know, there's always going to be cravings even what is it like
Jacob: A week away from being a year clean now. Um, there's always going to be cravings you and every single day. I think it's just a matter of
Jacob: How I Learned to react to them and deal with them, you know, like I think at first, there's like a timeline, where it was like, if I had a craving. How long would it last that little like voice can often my year. How long would it last. And I mean, at this point, that reaction time is like
Jacob: On a normal level. I'd say probably about three or four seconds. Maybe they're probably literally like creating arises.
Jacob: voice says no. Not this time. That's not why we're doing it. If that craving persist through that voice. It's like a stop and drop of
Jacob: Okay, what's going on right now. What am I doing, where am I and why am I feeling this way and then if it even get past that you, I mean,
Jacob: Then it's like, Okay. Go outside smoking cigarette go downstairs. Make yourself have it go make yourself a cup of tea, and then it really gets beyond the
Jacob: You know, have a have a cigarette or smoke some smoke a pipe tobacco license. I brought my own tobacco and it barely you and gets past that.
Jacob: Usually doesn't even get to the no, that's not what we do anymore. This is not what we aren't anymore. You know, and that's usually about less than two or three seconds. I'm
Jacob: Like, one thing that you know I've been doing that is interesting is that a lot of people have been kind of coming back into my life.
Jacob: That I guess I didn't necessarily see coming back into my life like in a positive way.
Jacob: Like you know friends from years years past.
Jacob: So sometimes you know when those start coalescing more and more in the proximity is getting closer and closer and relationships, getting better and better.
Jacob: Lots of feelings, the past and memories will come back up that are necessary, positive or good memories and sometimes those can definitely cause a triggers to me to start entering that spiral. But like I said, usually really doesn't even go past
Jacob: You know me going outside, smoking a cigarette or taking a fresher breath air. You know, sometimes I like looking at my arms and see a band or something.
Jacob: And then, you know, I have to go to step outside or something. But, you know, it really doesn't get beyond that and that's usually in less than a minute now. It took a long time to get there. You know, usually, usually could have just been, you know, like
Jacob: You know, at least like a minute to beating in my head about
Jacob: remembering things, you know, positive recall that good shit and then kind of not even going into thinking, Why am I feeling this way. What's even going on.
Jacob: Yeah. Um, but yeah, I mean I think honestly I it's it's not even like I even go down and play the tape anymore. You know, I started calling things in my head thinking what is what ours but it's just like
Jacob: immediately shuts it off, but I don't I don't honestly don't see a day for the next several months or a year. Even I probably imagine where if he wants to take
Jacob: The thought just won't even arise, real quick. You know what I mean, even if it goes back down. It's kind of like
Jacob: A fish jumping out of upon the one I mean, yeah, it's like. And at that point, it's just like the fish jumps out. It just goes right back in the morning. Me and so
Jacob: I imagine, they'll just be like that where it'll randomly come up and just go away. Again, you know, even if nothing
Jacob: You know nothing frustrates me you're instantly caused it. You don't even I could just walking around and suddenly, boom, it pops up, you know,
Jacob: So there's not even a moment or event causes it. It's just my mind firing sort of magical apologies like that for honestly like another
Jacob: Battle know how long I imagine a year or two, if not more, um, but, you know, slowly, it'll just be, you know, letting that thought just jump up and then just go back away.
And we have any drug dreams.
Jacob: Um, yeah, actually. Sometimes it's funny. I'll I usually only have dreams where I smoke weed, not because I want to put because I get tested at work.
Jacob: And so, like all this dream where like I'll smoke weed and my dream and then wake up being like, fuck, I suppose we like my get tested or something. I'ma lose my job. And I'll be like backtrack, be like, wait, no, no. I was like, definitely a dream.
Jacob: But the kind of a really, really freaky dreamed and dark talking dreams went away. Probably like two, three or four or five months ago. And that was kind of like the first six or seven months.
Jacob: Okay.
Jacob: But I think, but I think, like I said, the, the reason I think that I'm actually because I analyze my dreams a lot. I'm like a very vivid dream or like worked and studied lucid dreaming for a really, really long time.
Jacob: So I like vividly recall. Pretty much every dream I've had a night and
Jacob: You know, analyzing it. I think it's very, very clear that the reason why I dream of smoking is not because I want to get high on weed is because that
Jacob: I have a fear of losing my job, not just related to getting drug tested but just in general, like I like to work on job. I love to work my job. That's my friends aren't makes me happy gets the intellectual satisfaction, yada, yada, yada.
Jacob: So because of that, it makes me happy. Then there is a fear born out that that happiness to go away. So I think that just is the root of the tree or that could just be one avenue of that happiness going away.
Jacob: Yeah. That makes total sense. Absolutely.
All right, good.
Jacob: Sound like you're doing really well. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. I mean like honestly like a
Jacob: You know, it's definitely taken a lot of work. You know, it's amazing, it's only it's already been ongoing must a year now. Yeah, um,
Jacob: But yeah, I mean, there's definitely been a lot of conscious for done you know a lot of work done with myself. I think the most
Jacob: Helpful thing that I've really possibly done is just keeping in touch with myself and keeping internal dialogue going and stopping and checking in with myself and
Jacob: I'm really just critically thinking about myself taking a step outside of my own shoes and looking at myself from another perspective.
Jacob: You know, learning various different thought tactics thought paths methodologies of thought to basically understand who I am where I am. Why I'm feeling the way that I am, and I think that by policy putting that all together.
Jacob: Day in, day out, you know, I really feel feel very, very good. You know what I mean. Um,
Jacob: You know, like at this point.
Jacob: You know, it's just like, you know, it's more than just a complete one edu. I mean, I feel like it's almost like
Jacob: I worked so hard to make up for those bad years of my life that I actually even started to get so much out of it and so many rewards of things that I never thought would come back.
Jacob: That it gives me honestly so much drive to move forward and see, like, Okay, well, there was this Arrested Development in my life for three or four years where
Jacob: Maybe I even digressed a little bit, but I was pulled the rest of the developed not growing or aging truly are maturing in any single way.
Jacob: And then here I am, you know, I probably should be about 24 years old right now, but I'm 2623 24 years old.
Jacob: But now I see myself in this position where it's like okay well I can work the next few years.
Jacob: You know, very, very hard to get to exactly where I could have been now. But, you know, just a few last year's you know like I have so much Dr. To move forward to see what will be what I've already thought and right now is so amazing.
Jacob: So being able to see what will be in what could be driven towards that is huge, you know, I think it involves a lot of
Jacob: Being happy with the day that I've had and making sure that at the end of the day, I'm happy with what I've done, and looking forward to having things to do tomorrow morning.
Jacob: You know, and keeping that drive of being content and happy with where things are, even if it's a day that is in great, I'm not too happy. That's just one day and still looking forward to what I'm going to be doing and waking up tomorrow.
Jacob: You know, it's a huge, it's just, it's just
Jacob: It was just, I just shifted my perspective. Joining me. I turned my thoughts into
Jacob: Just a different way. You know, if I have the same thoughts that look at them from a different perspective. Whereas before, you know, it's just so closed minded and
Jacob: You know, go go go unit directly towards it's just saying, well, and nothing else matters. Yeah.
Jacob: All right, good. Sounds good. Keep damage, Dan. All right. Thank you. Yeah. You want to grow up with for next time or
Shawn Phalen: Yeah. Wait, how did we, how long do we go in between appointments to remember, was it was
Jacob: A 16th last time.
Jacob: We went a long, long time before I put you in appointments. Before that, I think it was May 16 or may 17 plus time. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Why don't we did three weeks. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Do you want to do, June 20 seconds.
Shawn Phalen: You need to do it a little bit later, right, because
Jacob: Yeah, seven o'clock is fine because if I'm when I'm working then dry management will be I'm usually home by
Jacob: Five or six usually six o'clock and if I'm not and I have an extra long day. I can always just tell them I called my doctor. Okay, so, June 22 Monday.
Jacob: Okay. Sounds good. Okay, great. Okay. All right, take care.
Jacob: Bye.